Aleksandr Petrosyan: Hello!
Brent Zundel: Hello! How are you?
Aleksandr Petrosyan: You know? Crazy? Yeah.
Brent Zundel: Yes, in my back.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: So I guess we were expecting a lot of people today.
Brent Zundel: i'm hoping so.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Yeah.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it's a bit of a shame. We Last time we met we actually had a few actionable points, and since then
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it's non-stop
Aleksandr Petrosyan: deadline after deadline.
Brent Zundel: That will stuff happens.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Yeah.
it's
probably
Aleksandr Petrosyan: cool.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: A good thing.
What?
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I think it's crossed. It's actually gonna
better
Aleksandr Petrosyan: actually, we
Aleksandr Petrosyan: one of the last deadlines which is
on the twentieth. So
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it's Friday.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and we'll have a lot of resources otherwise to dedicate to us.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Maybe it starts going 3.
What about
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I do the cool request.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: maybe maybe write some code of our own. Actually.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it's a bit of a
Aleksandr Petrosyan: the the one kind of retooling that was
Aleksandr Petrosyan: a little bit necessary at 1 point was
Aleksandr Petrosyan: we needed to update the dependencies
Aleksandr Petrosyan: over there Hasn't been but
Aleksandr Petrosyan: to make sure.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and it isn't trivial
and also
Aleksandr Petrosyan: make it trivial.
Yeah.
Brent Zundel: on that note of, you know, working in ersa, and
Brent Zundel: you know just on the topic of reducing
Brent Zundel: barriers.
Brent Zundel: is there?
Brent Zundel: Is there someone on your team that you would want added as a Maintainer.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: You know we're in a little bit of a great territory.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Our company is basically sinking money into you. As it is.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it's a big open source project, and we have something like 12 developers. There.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: We have a hard time justifying the developers we have on, you know.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: much less than dedicating time to supporting any one of the upstream library within
Aleksandr Petrosyan: up.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I can get away with it because i'm the technique. And I can say we need this
Aleksandr Petrosyan: because security and so on
Aleksandr Petrosyan: anyone else, it is going to be an uphill at home.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I'm not saying it's a no, i'm just saying it's difficult.
Brent Zundel: Oh, yeah, no worries. I mean, i'm just talking about adding a name to the Maintainer's list.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: To be quite known as doing the Tsc. Ballot that that is a little bit in the backside
Aleksandr Petrosyan: the of the 12 developers would be hired this year was
Aleksandr Petrosyan: basically 0, who are allowed to contribute to the vote.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it very
Aleksandr Petrosyan: useful.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Maybe we should. All of you people
Aleksandr Petrosyan: to just an in name Only
then there's the question, what
Aleksandr Petrosyan: What if actually something does come up on? They actually need to do something.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Oh, oh.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I lost around with my team.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: How many people were you applying for
Aleksandr Petrosyan: contributions?
Brent Zundel: Well, it's just
Brent Zundel: the way that
Brent Zundel: the approvals work with
Brent Zundel: Someone from the Maintainer's list needs to approve the Pr's right. Now that list consists of me.
Brent Zundel: cool. I don't have time, and my boss is like.
Brent Zundel: you know, kind of eyeing my participation in Ursa sideways, anyway, because at this point my company isn't using it anymore.
Brent Zundel: Mike
Brent Zundel: Completely blanking on his last name, which is a shame because I literally worked with him for years.
Brent Zundel: Mike Who wrote a good chunk of ersa, but and might have time in the future to come and work on some more stuff. But at this point
Brent Zundel: who knows? And camara who works for
Brent Zundel: it is nice.
Brent Zundel: Well, he
Brent Zundel: he's working for
Brent Zundel: the company does micro loans in Africa.
Brent Zundel: And they were strong into Hyper Ledger for a while, doing just like any stuff, and then they pulled away.
Brent Zundel: And
Brent Zundel: And so
Brent Zundel: of those 3 maintainers
Brent Zundel: i'm there some of the time.
Brent Zundel: and may not be there for much longer.
Brent Zundel: So just having another name on that list that can push the approved button on a Pr. To get things merged. Moving forward.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: That case I me?
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I think i'm already in the field
Aleksandr Petrosyan: request. This is my
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Get home.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I'll definitely have time to look through the Prs. At least
Aleksandr Petrosyan: maybe contribute some code as well
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and definitely this month.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: we do need to get the dependencies on.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: because it's untenable. We have to duplicate a lot of dependencies
Aleksandr Petrosyan: as is.
So
Aleksandr Petrosyan: i'll ask you around the team, maybe during the next meeting we'll have
that means.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: But basically the idea is you need someone to be able to review the call requests not necessarily to contribute code
right?
Brent Zundel: Right, like anybody can submit a Pr. what we need is somebody on the receiving end that can click the yes button. This is okay.
Brent Zundel: I can do it, and Mike sometimes shows up and does it.
Brent Zundel: I don't know that
Brent Zundel: cam's done it a long time. You know. It's just
Brent Zundel: It's just one of those things that we need.
Brent Zundel: okay, so i'm going to add you right now.
Brent Zundel: and you live on the call.
Brent Zundel: It is a L. E, x s, a n, d R. Oh, no, e at the end
no, no!
Aleksandr Petrosyan: What's funny is that I
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I wasn't even consulted on how to spell my name, so it's permanently recorded, as this
Aleksandr Petrosyan: abomination
happens.
Brent Zundel: And your github is at
Brent Zundel: a dash.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Oh, good pronunciation!
Well, thank you.
Brent Zundel: do you participate in the
Brent Zundel: discord channels and stuff on
Brent Zundel: the Hyper Ledger? Discord?
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Yes, but very early the I used to do it a lot more, but the
Aleksandr Petrosyan: the lack of a better word.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: deadline after deadline situation that started in September, and
Aleksandr Petrosyan: didn't end until
Aleksandr Petrosyan: until the day after
Aleksandr Petrosyan: this Friday.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: there was no balance.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: none.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I I actually was length of the Csc. Election as Well.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I
Aleksandr Petrosyan: basically. Produce everything in 5 min.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: That's why I wasn't elected.
Brent Zundel: I can't find you. I'm searching in the wrong discord. Let's try this again.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Oh.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: maybe I can find you
Aleksandr Petrosyan: us on the Hyper Ledger discord, right?
Brent Zundel: I Currently I I found you. I just need. There's like a numeric code
Aleksandr Petrosyan: 9, 7, 3, 4,
Brent Zundel: 9, 7, 3, 4.
Brent Zundel: Okay. I think I've got this in
Brent Zundel: properly
Brent Zundel: that we are here.
This is.
Brent Zundel: Make sure
Brent Zundel: it goes.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Our maintain is allowed to push the right.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: or do they have to go through the, you know, and put the prices as well?
Brent Zundel: They, if
Brent Zundel: ideally, if one Maintainer submits a. Pr. There will at least be comments and approvals from other folks that are involved before things are being merged. So it should go through the regular pr process.
Brent Zundel: I believe they have the power to
Brent Zundel: merge directly, but I
Brent Zundel: honestly it's been so long since I've looked at the buttons.
Oh.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: i'm sure the better question is, if
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I needed to force push.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: to correct some sign offs at some point.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Will that be considered a huge in fractional just to
Aleksandr Petrosyan: in the last hotel.
Brent Zundel: I
Brent Zundel: I don't think that
Brent Zundel: anybody would
Brent Zundel: consider that
Brent Zundel: a huge infraction.
Okay.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: we got a situation where we don't have where we have to. We commit
Aleksandr Petrosyan: around the hunting commits because
Aleksandr Petrosyan: one of the earliest signos was with a github rather than that.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: an actual personal email
Aleksandr Petrosyan: so that you sign up for
basically.
use this?
Brent Zundel: Oh, yeah, the d smell stuff. That stuff is
Brent Zundel: very annoying when it gets
Brent Zundel: punched out.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Our solution was to disable the
Brent Zundel: alright.
Brent Zundel: Oh, no, no, go ahead.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: No
go ahead.
Brent Zundel: I was gonna say that the Pr. Is in it's going through the ci checks and everything which
Brent Zundel: I can't imagine. We'll have a problem because i'm changing one line in a single file.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: You should actually tune the Ci to. And all these things
Brent Zundel: I I don't disagree, but that's definitely outside of my
Aleksandr Petrosyan: i'm a little bit of a double. So
Aleksandr Petrosyan: okay.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and I can definitely see that the warnings and i'll consider that as
Aleksandr Petrosyan: the formatting is.
Brent Zundel: is the formatting off
Aleksandr Petrosyan: the formatting is correct.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: how do I know
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it wouldn't affect anything because you didn't touch any source code.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: The bigger question is most of the time
Aleksandr Petrosyan: on bigger projects enable W. Or in rust. The equipment is treating all
Aleksandr Petrosyan: warnings as
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and usually don't care about the formatting much.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: And as long as I can tell you, not actually caching the
artifacts.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Yeah.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: lots of room for improvements.
Brent Zundel: I am sure of that.
Brent Zundel: So Pr: 218 once it's through, or at any point you are more than welcome to jump in and
Brent Zundel: throw your approval on there, just to show that it's being done with your knowledge.
Brent Zundel: And so
Brent Zundel: I can turn my Google on there. And
Brent Zundel: i'm good.
Brent Zundel: added
Brent Zundel: water, Mike Water. I remember
right.
since
Aleksandr Petrosyan: out of the comment, just in case
Aleksandr Petrosyan: how many
Aleksandr Petrosyan: projects in hyperl are using rust.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: i'm going to throw that close a little bit, but
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it goes shockingly more popular.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I know it's little hard. Aries
another
that's basically it.
Brent Zundel: Yeah, not as many as i'd like
Brent Zundel: that a pretty high opinion of of
Brent Zundel: there was
Brent Zundel: years and years back. There was very serious talk about
Brent Zundel: porting in the
Brent Zundel: to rust
Brent Zundel: And actually the if I remember the Indie SDK is in Rusk already, but it's the
Brent Zundel: it's the actual Indie plenum and the ledger code that's still in python of all things.
Brent Zundel: So who? Yeah, there was like very serious conversations around we we should really do this. But you know, like
Brent Zundel: is common with open source projects. Well, who's got the resources and time to actually do that?
Brent Zundel: And how confident are we that it's still going to work with that?
It was.
Brent Zundel: But yeah, not as much rest as i'd like to see.
Brent Zundel: though, from what I understand the
Brent Zundel: there's some go that's being written, that's
that's pretty decent as well.
I'm not a big time ago.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I respect the people designing it.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: The design itself Structural time, I think
it was just.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: It's.
It's like
Aleksandr Petrosyan: is hindsight to 30 years
Aleksandr Petrosyan: of what everyone, including people
Aleksandr Petrosyan: to a design
really in brilliant languages like this.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and terrible, terrible languages like this.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I have taught you about how to do these things.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and you throw it all away.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: You say let's reinvent the deal
Aleksandr Petrosyan: based on something that we know. Doesn't.
It's
Aleksandr Petrosyan: not that I have any objection to this.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Go, that's written.
It's just not. The
Aleksandr Petrosyan: rust has a low, high barrier of entry.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: because you have to get through the borrowed checker
Aleksandr Petrosyan: by the time you finish the events.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: quite another venture. You've learned a lot.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: would go. It's not the same. It's it actually lets you get away with
Aleksandr Petrosyan: talk too much, and by the time you've finished with the tutorial you already picked up a few about habits.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: But then again it's. It's all in the program.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Emphasis on
Aleksandr Petrosyan: this is an engineer, actually.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: because it a good design, even in a good language.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: You know a bad language or flourish on the planet Design, even with a good language, will just die out.
Brent Zundel: It's in point. There's a lot of C still out there.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Good. See
Brent Zundel: there.
Brent Zundel: like legitimately
Brent Zundel: solid. See, I mean
Brent Zundel: the the Linux kernel is my favorite example of that
Brent Zundel: works really well.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Well, it
Brent Zundel: at least for a certain measure of works, really. Well, I guess. Here
Brent Zundel: you're on Linux
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I contributed
Aleksandr Petrosyan: little bit of code system that it's Eric controllers
Aleksandr Petrosyan: back in my day
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and i'm really happy that they introduced us into the kernel.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: because the kind of thing that you'd be writing
Aleksandr Petrosyan: isn't the kind of thing that you trust to
Aleksandr Petrosyan: seeing all this to do most of the contributions are from scene offices.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: It's it's better to spend a little more time compiling and being certain that you
Aleksandr Petrosyan: they haven't made a mistake rather than
Aleksandr Petrosyan: having
Aleksandr Petrosyan: a controller that use it.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: What is used
Aleksandr Petrosyan: in some lab somewhere.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: You actually wouldn't believe what the code is for. There's a there's an apple 2 computer in the Cabin Mission laboratory in Cambridge.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I really wanted to move to a somewhat modern operating system
Aleksandr Petrosyan: still made if you purchase the Linux
Aleksandr Petrosyan: so that you could remove everything else. And if you fitted to the
to be able to run
Aleksandr Petrosyan: least compatible software things that you could compile on a regular PC, and then just
Aleksandr Petrosyan: move into it.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Yeah, it works.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: It was shockingly well.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: They returned to the apple, too, because it had some software which was designed specifically for the application.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: It was proprietary. So you couldn't reverse, engineer.
Let it run the control of it
Aleksandr Petrosyan: this one while I lost it.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I guess we are not going to be joined by anyone
Brent Zundel: doesn't look like it.
Brent Zundel: so in addition to the comment, if you're able to, just like, if you go to the files, changed, tab and approve
Brent Zundel: normal. Yeah, Well, there.
Brent Zundel: and I will ping Mike and cam
Brent Zundel: to see if they can jump in and approve it.
Brent Zundel: And
Brent Zundel: yeah, we'll get
good.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: so just the roadmap for what we're going to be doing.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: My guess is
Aleksandr Petrosyan: next week is the earliest. I can actually start doing anything.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Then i'll have a look at the smaller issues like 213, maybe, as the crashes on sea length shorter than 30, divided by
Aleksandr Petrosyan: should be an easy fix.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I'll bump
Aleksandr Petrosyan: dependencies as much as I can
Aleksandr Petrosyan: The conditional compilation makes it difficult, for I think it should be possible.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: At least
Aleksandr Petrosyan: i'll go to where it should be
Aleksandr Petrosyan: readable.
Hmm.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: so the simple
it's.
It's a bit more complicated.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I think it will be resolved when
Aleksandr Petrosyan: will be bumping the burden? It might actually come with the same
full request.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I think we should probably have another meeting and discuss what's going to happen next. But
Aleksandr Petrosyan: after that the biggest.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: probably
best thing to start working on is
Aleksandr Petrosyan: adding support for
Aleksandr Petrosyan: undeprecated libraries like this era.
anyhow.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: 199.
Brent Zundel: Yeah.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: After those are done we can start talking about
Aleksandr Petrosyan: changing
the structure
great.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: making it it's lots of smaller crates which are compiled separately rather than a single
Aleksandr Petrosyan: single one with most features.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Hopefully. They will also help in organizing the code.
because
Aleksandr Petrosyan: right now it's not quite as obvious as
Aleksandr Petrosyan: you'd like to be.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: which create, or rather, which module is responsible, for which functionality
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it's all over the place and grouped by algorithm rather than by functionality.
Brent Zundel: Yeah, Usually, if you're using.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: if you're using something, you're not actually interested in the algorithm
Aleksandr Petrosyan: you're interested in
Aleksandr Petrosyan: either encryption, decryption, thresholds, etc.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and those things
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Mit, c.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Or you could import each of them individually.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: and that will
Aleksandr Petrosyan: probably cut down on the compilation time as well.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: because then you can explicitly define.
You want
no
Aleksandr Petrosyan: recompiled every time you
Aleksandr Petrosyan: right.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Do you really need to upload the roadmap
Aleksandr Petrosyan: before we do it? What do we need to do after
Brent Zundel: I
Brent Zundel: What you outlined just now is
Brent Zundel: in line with my understanding of where we want to go, and I wanted to go.
Brent Zundel: And so
Brent Zundel: I think we got to just start seeing. Pr.
Okay.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Okay, in case
Oh.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: i'll address the issues which were assigned to me.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I'll let you self assign it to you
Aleksandr Petrosyan: the ones that I mentioned.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: yeah.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Like, I said. The reason why I haven't contributed previously was
Aleksandr Petrosyan: the precarious, for we do need us, and we
Aleksandr Petrosyan: I really want to have a point on my busy, my
Aleksandr Petrosyan: cryptographic library
on
Aleksandr Petrosyan: management isn't very happy with spending
Aleksandr Petrosyan: develop a time doing this
I might actually have to take it out and do it on my own time
sometimes.
Yeah.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: it's good that we can help
that. We can help
Aleksandr Petrosyan: little bit more this time.
So on.
Brent Zundel: Well, I appreciate you being here, and next meeting is in 2 weeks, and hopefully both of us can be there as well.
Aleksandr Petrosyan: Excellent!
Thank you.
Brent Zundel: Thank you, Alexander
Bye.